AWS FPGA Hardware Development Kit (HDK)
=======================================

Table of Contents
-----------------

- `HDK Overview <#hdk-overview>`__
- `Getting Started <#getting-started>`__

  - `Quick Start HW and SW Example: Host-to-FPGA Communication via the
    OCL
    Interface <#quick-start-hw-and-sw-example-host-to-fpga-communication-via-the-ocl-interface>`__
  - `Build Accelerator AFI using HDK Design
    Flow <#build-accelerator-afi-using-hdk-design-flow>`__

    - `Step 1. Setup Development
      Environment <#step-1-setup-development-environment>`__
    - `Step 2. Clone Developer Kit
      Repository <#step-2-clone-developer-kit-repository>`__
    - `Step 3. Setup Environment for HDK Design
      Flow <#step-3-setup-environment-for-hdk-design-flow>`__
    - `Step 4. Build CL Design Check Point
      (DCP) <#step-4-build-cl-design-check-point-dcp>`__
    - `Step 5. Explore Build
      Artifacts <#step-5-explore-build-artifacts>`__
    - `Step 6. Submit Generated DCP for AFI
      Creation <#step-6-submit-generated-dcp-for-afi-creation>`__
    - `Step 7. Load Accelerator AFI on F2
      Instance <#step-7-load-accelerator-afi-on-f2-instance>`__
    - `Step 8. Validate your AFI using Example Runtime
      Software <#step-8-validate-your-afi-using-example-runtime-software>`__

- `AFI PCIe IDs <#afi-pcie-ids>`__
- `CL Examples <#cl-examples>`__

  - `cl_sde <#cl-sde>`__
  - `cl_dram_hbm_dma <#cl-dram-hbm-dma>`__
  - `cl_mem_perf <#cl-mem-perf>`__
  - `CL_TEMPLATE - Create your own
    design <#cl-template-to-create-your-own-design>`__

- `CL Example Hierarchy <#cl-example-hierarchy>`__

  - `Design <#design>`__
  - `Verification <#verification>`__
  - `Software <#software>`__
  - `Build <#build>`__

- `HDK Common Library <#hdk-common-library>`__

  - `/shell_stable <#shell-stable>`__
  - `/verif <#verif>`__
  - `/ip <#ip>`__
  - `/lib <#lib>`__

- `Next Steps <#next-steps>`__

HDK Overview
------------

The HDK design flow enables developers to create RTL-based accelerator
designs for F2 instances using AMD Vivado. HDK designs must be
integrated with Small Shell, which does not include a built-in Direct
Memory Access (DMA) engine and offers full resources in the top Super
Logic Region (SLR) of the FPGA to developers.

Getting Started
---------------

Quick Start HW and SW Example: Host-to-FPGA Communication via the OCL Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `test_aws_clk_gen.c software runtime example <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_mem_perf/software/runtime/test_aws_clk_gen.c>`__
utilizes the `OCL AXI
interface <./docs/AWS-Shell-Interface-Specification.html>`__ to program
the `AWS Clock Generation IP <./docs/AWS-CLK-GEN-spec.html>`__ within the
CL_MEM_PERF AFI.

The example can be run by following the steps in the following
documentation references:

1. Build and ingest the
   `CL_MEM_PERF <./cl/examples/cl-mem-perf/README.html>`__ example by
   following the `Build Accelerator AFI using HDK Design
   Flow <#build-accelerator-afi-using-hdk-design-flow>`__ section below
2. `Load the AGFI <#step-7-load-accelerator-afi-on-f2-instance>`__
   generated by the ``create-fpga-image`` command
3. Follow the `CL_MEM_PERF software runtime compilation
   instructions <./cl/examples/cl-mem-perf/README.html#software>`__ and
   execute ``./test_aws_clk_gen``

Build Accelerator AFI using HDK Design Flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section provides a step-by-step guide to build an F2 AFI using the
HDK design flow. The flow starts with an existing Customer Logic (CL)
example design. Steps 1 through 3 demonstrate how to set up the HDK
development environment. Steps 4 through 5 show the commands used to
generate CL Design Checkpoint (DCP) files and other build artifacts.
Steps 6 and 7 demonstrate how to submit the DCP file to generate an AFI
for use on F2 instances.

Step 1. Setup Development Environment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Developers can either use the `AWS-provided developer
AMI <./../User-Guide-AWS-EC2-FPGA-Development-Kit.html#fpga-developer-ami>`__
for F2 or their `on-premise development
environment <./docs/on-premise-licensing-help.html>`__ for this demo.

Step 2. Clone Developer Kit Repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga.git

Step 3. Setup Environment for HDK Design Flow
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `hdk_setup.sh <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk_setup.sh>`__ script needs to be sourced for
each terminal and takes ~2 minutes to complete when first run.

.. code-block:: bash

   cd aws-fpga
   source hdk_setup.sh

After the setup is done successfully, you should see
``AWS HDK setup PASSED``. Sourcing ``hdk_setup.sh`` does the following:

- Verifies a supported Vivado installation
- Sets up all environment variables required by the HDK design flow
- Generates IP simulation models for CL examples
- Downloads all required shell files from a shared S3 bucket

Step 4. Build CL Design Check Point (DCP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After the HDK design environment is set up, you are ready to build a
design example. Run the following commands to build CL DCP files in
Vivado. This tutorial uses the `cl_sde <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde>`__
example. The same steps can be used for any other `CL examples <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples>`__.

.. code-block:: bash

   cd hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde
   export CL_DIR=$(pwd)
   cd build/scripts
   ./aws_build_dcp_from_cl.py -c cl_sde

The Shell supplies two base clocks to the CL: a 250MHz ``clk_main_a0``
clock and a 100MHz ``clk_hbm_ref`` clock. However, the CL can run at
higher frequencies using locally generated clocks. F2 Developer Kit
offers an `AWS Clock Generation (AWS_CLK_GEN)
IP <./docs/AWS-CLK-GEN-spec.html>`__ that you can leverage in your design
to generate CL clocks with frequencies specified in the `Clock Recipes
User Guide <./docs/Clock-Recipes-User-Guide.html>`__.

Run the command below to build a DCP with desired clock recipes:

.. code-block:: bash

   cd hdk/cl/examples/cl_mem_perf
   export CL_DIR=$(pwd)
   cd build/scripts
   ./aws_build_dcp_from_cl.py -c cl_mem_perf --aws_clk_gen --clock_recipe_a A1 --clock_recipe_b B2 --clock_recipe_c C0 --clock_recipe_hbm H2

**NOTE**: The `cl_sde <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde>`__ example does not
contain the AWS_CLK_GEN component. This command uses the
`cl_mem_perf <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_mem_perf>`__ example to demonstrate the
AWS_CLK_GEN usage.

A few more notes on
`aws_build_dcp_from_cl.py <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/blob/-/hdk/common/shell_stable/build/scripts/aws_build_dcp_from_cl.py>`__:

- Use ``--mode small_shell`` option to build CL designs with Small
  Shell.
- Use ``--cl <CL name>`` option to build a different CL design. This is
  default to ``cl_dram_hbm_dma``.
- Use ``--aws_clk_gen`` option to annotate the use of `AWS clock
  generation block <./docs/AWS-CLK-GEN-spec.html>`__ and `customer clock
  recipes <./docs/Clock-Recipes-User-Guide.html>`__.
- Use ``--no-encrypt`` option to disable encryption of the design’s
  source code and DCPs. Encryption, enabled by default, may impede
  debugging as errors from encrypted envelope do not provide meaningful
  information.
- The script also allows developers to pass different Vivado directives
  as shown below:

  - ``--place <directive>``: Default to ``SSI_SpreadLogic_high``
    placement strategy. Please refer to `Vivado User
    Guide <https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug904-vivado-implementation/Available-Directives>`__
    for supported directives.
  - ``--phy_opt <directive>`` : Default to ``AggressiveExplore``
    physical optimization strategy. Please refer to `Vivado User
    Guide <https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug904-vivado-implementation/Using-Directives?tocId=9xJiGeSV35ApxUsX7pAVDg>`__
    for supported directives
  - ``--route <directive>`` : Default to ``AggressiveExplore`` routing
    strategy. Please refer to `Vivado User
    Guide <https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug904-vivado-implementation/Using-Directives?tocId=dV9wYjuIP6n9oUJhkoHuRg>`__
    for supported directives.

- Run ``./aws_build_dcp_from_cl.py --help`` to see more build options
  available in building CL designs.

Step 5. Explore Build Artifacts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While Vivado is running, a build log file
``YYYYY_MM_DD-HHMMSS.vivado.log`` will be created in
``$CL_DIR/build/scripts`` to track the build’s progress. DCP build times
will vary based on the design size and complexity. The examples in the
development kit take between 30 to 90 minutes to build. After the design
is finished building, the following information will be shown at the
bottom of the log file:

.. code-block:: bash

   tail <YYYYY_MM_DD-HHMMSS.vivado.log>

       ...
       AWS FPGA: (16:05:44): Finished building design checkpoints for customer design cl_sde
       ...
       INFO: [Common 17-206] Exiting Vivado at ...

Generated post-route DCP and design manifest files are archived into a
tarball file ``<YYYY_MM_DD-HHMMSS>.Developer_CL.tar`` and saved in the
``$CL_DIR/build/checkpoints/`` directory. All design timing reports are
saved in the ``$CL_DIR/build/reports/`` directory.

⚠️ If Vivado cannot achieve timing closure for the design, the
post-route DCP file name will be marked with ``.VIOLATED`` as an
indicator. Developers need to refer to the DCPs and timing reports for
detailed timing failures.

⚠️ The build process will generate a DCP tarball file regardless of the
design’s timing closure state. However, in case of a DCP with timing
failures, the design’s functionality is no longer guaranteed. Therefore,
the AFI created using this DCP should be used for testing purpose ONLY.
The following warning is shown in this case:

.. code-block:: text

   !!! WARNING: Detected a post-route DCP with timing failure for AFI creation. Design functionalities are NOT guaranteed.

Step 6. Submit Generated DCP for AFI Creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once developers have built their DCP, they may submit their FPGA design
for AFI creation.

Before doing so, an IAM role capable of S3 and EC2 access must be
attached to the instance where the DCP will be submitted from. See the
`Setting Up IAM Roles for Use with the AWS EC2 FPGA Development
Kit <../developer-resources/Setting-up-IAM-roles-for-devkit-use.html#afi-creation-permissions>`__
guide for the required permissions.

1. Execute the `create_afi.py utility <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/scripts/create_afi.py>`__ from
   anywhere within the ``aws-fpga`` repository:

   - ``$AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/hdk/scripts/create_afi.py``
   - May require a Python virtual environment which can be started with:
     ``source $AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/hdk/scripts/start_venv.sh``

2. OR: Upload the DCP to S3 and specify all fields to the
   ``aws ec2 create-fpga-image`` utility according to instructions in
   `Manual AFI
   Creation <./docs/Amazon-FPGA-Images-Afis-Guide.html#option-2-manual-afi-creation>`__

**NOTE: Additional information about AFI’s and surrounding tools can be
found in the** `Amazon FPGA Images (AFIs)
Guide <./docs/Amazon-FPGA-Images-Afis-Guide.html>`__

Step 7. Load Accelerator AFI on F2 Instance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now that your AFI is available, it can be tested on an F2 instance. The
instance can be launched using any preferred AMI, private or public,
from the AWS EC2 AMI Catalog. AWS recommends using AMIs with `similar OS
and kernel
versions <../User-Guide-AWS-EC2-FPGA-Development-Kit.html#fpga-developer-ami>`__
to those of our developer AMIs.

Now you need to install the FPGA Management tools by sourcing the
``sdk_setup.sh`` script:

.. code-block:: bash

   cd aws-fpga
   source sdk_setup.sh

Once the tools are installed, you can load the AFI onto a slot on the F2
instance. It is a good practice to clear any previously loaded AFI from
that slot:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo fpga-clear-local-image  -S 0
   AFI          0       No AFI                  cleared           1        ok               0       0x10212415
   AFIDEVICE    0       0x1d0f      0x9048      0000:00:1e.0

You can also invoke the ``fpga-describe-local-image`` command to learn
which AFI, if any, is loaded onto a particular slot. For example, if the
slot is cleared (``slot 0`` in this example), you should get an output
similar to the following:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo fpga-describe-local-image -S 0 -H
   Type  FpgaImageSlot  FpgaImageId             StatusName    StatusCode   ErrorName    ErrorCode   ShVersion
   AFI          0       No AFI                  cleared           1        ok               0       0x10212415
   Type  FpgaImageSlot  VendorId    DeviceId    DBDF
   AFIDEVICE    0       0x1d0f      0x9048      0000:00:1e.0

If ``fpga-describe-local-image`` API call returns a status ``busy``, the
FPGA is still performing the previous operation in the background.
Please wait until the status is ``cleared`` as above.

Now, let’s load your AFI onto the FPGA on ``slot 0``:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo fpga-load-local-image -S 0 -I agfi-0925b211f5a81b071
   AFI          0       agfi-0925b211f5a81b071  loaded            0        ok               0       0x10212415
   AFIDEVICE    0       0x1d0f      0x9048      0000:00:1e.0

**NOTE**: *The FPGA Management tools use the AGFI ID (not the AFI ID).*

Now, you can verify that the AFI was loaded properly. The output shows
the FPGA in the ``loaded`` state after the FPGA image “load” operation.
The ``-R`` option performs a PCI device remove and rescan in order to
expose the unique AFI Vendor and Device Id.

.. code-block:: bash

   Type  FpgaImageSlot  FpgaImageId             StatusName    StatusCode   ErrorName    ErrorCode   ShVersion
   AFI          0       agfi-0925b211f5a81b071  loaded            0        ok               0       0x10212415
   Type  FpgaImageSlot  VendorId    DeviceId    DBDF
   AFIDEVICE    0       0x1d0f      0x9048      0000:00:1e.0

Step 8. Validate your AFI using Example Runtime Software
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each CL example includes a runtime software binary, located in the
``$CL_DIR/software/runtime/`` subdirectory. Executing the software
requires the corresponding AFI to be loaded onto the FPGA. This step
demonstrates runtime software execution using the ``CL_SDE`` example.

.. code-block:: bash

   # Ensure the $CL_DIR is pointing to the CL_SDE example directory
   $ cd $CL_DIR/software/runtime/
   $ make

   ...

   Logical Core 1 (socket 0) forwards packets on 1 streams:
     RX P=0/Q=0 (socket 0) -> TX P=0/Q=0 (socket 0) peer=02:00:00:00:00:00

     io packet forwarding packets/burst=32
     nb forwarding cores=1 - nb forwarding ports=1
     port 0: RX queue number: 1 Tx queue number: 1
       Rx offloads=0x0 Tx offloads=0x0
       RX queue: 0
         RX desc=0 - RX free threshold=0
         RX threshold registers: pthresh=0 hthresh=0  wthresh=0
         RX Offloads=0x0
       TX queue: 0
         TX desc=0 - TX free threshold=0
         TX threshold registers: pthresh=0 hthresh=0  wthresh=0
         TX offloads=0x0 - TX RS bit threshold=0
   Press enter to exit

   Telling cores to stop...
   Waiting for lcores to finish...

     ---------------------- Forward statistics for port 0  ----------------------
     RX-packets: 10771136       RX-dropped: 0             RX-total: 10771136
     TX-packets: 8160479        TX-dropped: 2610689       TX-total: 10771168
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

     +++++++++++++++ Accumulated forward statistics for all ports+++++++++++++++
     RX-packets: 10771136       RX-dropped: 0             RX-total: 10771136
     TX-packets: 8160479        TX-dropped: 2610689       TX-total: 10771168
     ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

   Done.

   Stopping port 0...
   Stopping ports...
   Done

   Shutting down port 0...
   Closing ports...
   Done

   Bye...

AFI PCIe IDs
------------

Customers can customize the PCIe IDs for generated AFIs, including
Vendor ID (VID), Device ID (DID), Subsystem Vendor ID (SVID) and
Subsystem Device ID (SSID), to facilitate the proper driver binding.
These PCIe IDs are required for the AFI generation process and must be
defined in the
`cl_id_defines.vh <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde/design/cl_id_defines.vh>`__ file
under each example. Here is an example in the ``CL_SDE`` example:

.. code-block:: verilog

   // CL_SH_ID0
   // - PCIe Vendor/Device ID Values
   //    31:16: PCIe Device ID
   //    15: 0: PCIe Vendor ID
   //    - A Vendor ID value of 0x8086 is not valid.
   //    - If using a Vendor ID value of 0x1D0F (Amazon) then valid
   //      values for Device ID's are in the range of 0xF000 - 0xF0FF.
   //    - A Vendor/Device ID of 0 (zero) is not valid.
   `define CL_SH_ID0       32'hF002_1D0F

   // CL_SH_ID1
   // - PCIe Subsystem/Subsystem Vendor ID Values
   //    31:16: PCIe Subsystem ID
   //    15: 0: PCIe Subsystem Vendor ID
   // - A PCIe Subsystem/Subsystem Vendor ID of 0 (zero) is not valid
   `define CL_SH_ID1       32'h1D51_FEDC

When a DCP tarball file gets generated, the IDs are included in the
`manifest file <./docs/AFI-Manifest.html>`__ within the tarball:

.. code-block:: bash

   pci_device_id=0xF002

   pci_vendor_id=0x1D0F

   pci_subsystem_id=0x1D51

   pci_subsystem_vendor_id=0xFEDC

CL Examples
-----------

All examples have the following features:

- Simulation model, tests, and scripts
- Xilinx Vivado implementation scripts for generating bitstream

`cl_sde <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The cl_sde example implements the Streaming Data Engine (SDE) IP block
into FPGA custom logic to demonstrate the `Virtual Ethernet
Application <../sdk/apps/virtual-ethernet/README.html>`__.

See `cl_sde <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde>`__ for more information

`cl_dram_hbm_dma <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_dram_hbm_dma>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The cl_dram_hbm_dma example demonstrates the use and connectivity for
many of the Shell/CL interfaces and functionality. The OCL (AXI-Lite)
interface is used for general configuration, the PCIS (AXI4) interface
is used for data traffic from the host to DDR and HBM DRAM channels in
the CL (initiated by the host), and the PCIM (AXI4) interface is used
for data traffic between the host and the CL (initiated by the CL).

See `cl_dram_hbm_dma <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_dram_hbm_dma>`__ for more
information

`cl_mem_perf <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_mem_perf>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The cl_mem_perf is a reference design for F2 where the objective is to
demonstrate fine tuned data paths to HBM and DDR to achieve maximum
throughput to the memories. The example also demonstrates datapath
connectivity between Host, AWS Shell, Custom Logic (CL) region in the
FPGA, HBM and DDR DIMM on the FPGA card.

See `cl_mem_perf <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_mem_perf>`__ for more information

`CL_TEMPLATE <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE>`__ to Create your own design
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

CL_TEMPLATE is targeted to help customers create a new CustomLogic
example. Users can update the design, verification, and build flow to
meet their needs without having to tear down a separate example. We
recommend going through other CL examples before creating a new CL.

All of the design files and tests can be compiled, simulated, built, and
deployed on hardware (without any modifications). Users can add/update
design files, add new verification tests, and add new build directives
to meet their needs.

A full guide on creating your own CL design can be found in
`CL_TEMPLATE <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE>`__

To create a new CL example:

.. code-block:: bash

   export NEW_CL_NAME='New CL Name'
   cd hdk/cl/examples
   ./create_new_cl.py --new_cl_name ${NEW_CL_NAME}

CL Example Hierarchy
--------------------

The following sections describe common functionality across all CL
examples. `CL_TEMPLATE <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE>`__ can be used as a
reference for what features are available in all CL examples; as well as
what’s required to verify, test, and build.

Design
~~~~~~

- All CL examples store the design files under
  ``/hdk/cl/examples/$CL_DIR/design/``

  - For example:
    `/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/design/ <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/design>`__

- All IP designs available by default are stored in
  `/hdk/common/ip/cl_ip/ <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common>`__

  - More can be added from the Xilinx Vivado IP catalog

Verification
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- All CL examples utilize infrastructure found under
  `/hdk/common/verif/ <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif>`__
- Simulation libraries are generated under
  ``/hdk/common/verif/ip_simulation_libraries/``
- All examples should list out the
  ``/hdk/cl/examples/$CL_DIR/verif/tests/`` and ``Makefile.tests``

  - For example
    $AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/`hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/verif/tests/ <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/verif/tests>`__
  - and `CL_TEMPLATE Makefile.tests <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/verif/scripts/Makefile.tests>`__

- All HDK examples support a SH_DDR with 64GB access with an optional
  user controlled auto-precharge mode. Users can select the DDR access
  modes as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

   export TEST_NAME=test_ddr

   # To Run simulations with a 64 GB DDR DIMM
   make TEST=${TEST_NAME} USE_64GB_DDR_DIMM=1

   # To Run simulations with a 64 GB DDR DIMM and DDR core with user controlled auto-precharge mode
   make TEST=${TEST_NAME} USE_AP_64GB_DDR_DIMM=1

**NOTE**: Please refer to
`Supported_DDR_Modes.md <./docs/Supported-DDR-Modes.html>`__ for details
on supported DDR configurations.

After adding new design IPs, make sure to add the new simulation
``COMMON_LIBLISTS`` in
$AWS-FPGA/`hdk/common/verif/tb/scripts/Makefile.common.inc <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif/tb/scripts/Makefile.common.inc>`__

⚠️ **Required for XSIM and Questa simulations**

- Make sure to add the new simulation libraries to ``COMMON_LIBLISTS``
  in
  $AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/`hdk/common/verif/tb/scripts/Makefile.common.inc <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif/tb/scripts/Makefile.common.inc>`__

  - This is required for XSIM and Questa simulations
  - These libraries can be found in
    $AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/`hdk/common/ip/cl_ip/cl_ip.ip_user_files/sim_scripts <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga-resources/blob/-/cl_ip/cl_ip.ip_user_files/sim_scripts>`__
    followed by ``"IP_NAME"/"SIMULATOR"/"IP_NAME".sh``

- After adding new IP’s to
  $AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/`hdk/common/ip/ <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common>`__ the simulation
  libraries need to be recompiled

  - Run ``make regenerate_sim_libs <XSIM/VCS/QUESTA>=1``

Software
~~~~~~~~

All software runtime code can be found under the ``software`` directory.

Build
~~~~~

- All CL examples utilize infrastructure found under
  $AWS_FPGA_REPO_DIR/`hdk/common/shell_stable/build <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/shell_stable/build>`__
- Users can modify the following files to meet their build requirements:

  - `synth_CL_NAME.tcl <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/build/scripts/synth_CL_TEMPLATE.tcl>`__
    - top level script that reads design, IP, and constraint files
  - `cl_synth_user.xdc <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/build/constraints/cl_synth_user.xdc>`__
    - synthesis build constraints specific to that example
  - `cl_timing_user.xdc <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/build/constraints/cl_timing_user.xdc>`__
    - timing build constraints specific to that example
  - `small_shell_cl_pnr_user.xdc <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/build/constraints/small_shell_cl_pnr_user.xdc>`__
    - place and route constraints specific to that example’s small shell
    build

For more information on
`synth_CL_NAME.tcl <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/build/scripts/synth_CL_TEMPLATE.tcl>`__
see:

- `synth_cl_header.tcl <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/shell_stable/build/scripts/synth_cl_header.tcl>`__
- `synth_cl_footer.tcl <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/shell_stable/build/scripts/synth_cl_footer.tcl>`__

After adding new design IPs:

- Make sure to add the new ``.xci`` files to your `synthesis TCL script <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/CL_TEMPLATE/build/scripts/synth_CL_TEMPLATE.tcl>`__

HDK Common Library
------------------

This directory includes the shell versions, scripts, timing constraints
and compile settings required during the AFI generation process.

Developers should not modify or remove these files.

`/shell_stable <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/shell_stable>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `shell_stable <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/shell_stable>`__ contains all the IPs,
constraints and scripts for each shell release.

`/verif <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `verif directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif>`__ includes reference verification
modules to be used as Bus Functional Models (BFM) as the external
interface to simulate the CL. The verification related files common to
all the CL examples are located in this directory. It has models,
include, scripts, tb directories.

The `verif models directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif/models>`__ includes simple
models of the DRAM interface around the FPGA, shell, and card. You can
also find Xilinx protocol checkers in this directory.

The `verif scripts directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif/scripts>`__ includes
scripts needed to generate DDR models and other scripts needed for HDK
setup.

The `verif include directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif/include>`__ includes
sh_dpi_tasks.vh needed for DPI-C.

The `verif tb directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/verif/tb>`__ includes top level test
bench related files common for all the CL examples.

The verif ip_simulation_libraries directory is created during runtime
and includes the simulation libraries and CL IP compilation for all
supported simulators.

`/ip <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `ip directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga-resources>`__
includes basic IP that is used by CL’s.

`/lib <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/lib>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `lib directory <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/common/lib>`__ includes basic “library” elements
that may be used by CL’s.

- aws_clk_gen.sv - Generate clocks and resets to the CL design
- aws_clk_regs.sv - Houses all the Control/Status Regs for AWS_CLK_GEN
  design
- axi_clock_conv.sv - AXI-4 bus clock converter
- axil_to_cfg_cnv.sv - Convert AXIL transaction into a simple CFG bus
- axis_flop_fifo.sv - Flop based FIFO for AXI-Stream protocol
- bram_1w1r.sv - BRAM (1 write/1 read port) RTL model.
- bram_wr2.sv - BRAM (2 read/write ports) RTL model.
- ccf_ctl.v - Clock crossing FIFO control block (pointers, address
  generation, etc…)
- cdc_async_fifo.sv - Async FF-based FIFO for CDC
- cdc_sync.sv - Single- or Multi-bit Synchronizer based on Xilinx XPM
- flop_ccf.sv - Flop based clock crossing FIFO.
- flop_fifo.sv - Flop based FIFO.
- flop_fifo_in.sv - Flop based FIFO, where input is flopped by common
  flops (can be used for input signal registering).
- ft_fifo.v - Flow through FIFO.
- ft_fifo_p.v - Flow through FIFO to be used with pipelined RAM.
- gray.inc - Gray code
- hbm_wrapper.sv - Wrapper for HBM IP
- interfaces.sv - Generic interfaces (AXI-4, AXI-L, etc…)
- lib_pipe.sv - Pipeline block.
- macros.svh - Instantiation macros (AXI-4, AXI-L, etc…)
- mgt_acc_axl.sv - Used by AWS provided sh_ddr.sv
- mgt_gen_axl.sv - Used by AWS provided sh_ddr.sv
- ram_fifo_ft.sv - Ram based FIFO
- rr_arb.sv - Round robin arbiter.
- srl_fifo.sv - Shift register based fifo.
- sync.v - Synchronizer
- xpm_fifo.sv - Synchronous clock FIFO

Next Steps
----------

- Review the
  `cl_dram_hbm_dma <./cl/examples/cl-dram-hbm-dma/README.html>`__ and
  `cl_sde <https://github.com/aws/aws-fpga/tree/f2/hdk/cl/examples/cl_sde>`__ examples
- `Run RTL
  Simulations <./docs/RTL-Simulation-Guide-for-HDK-Design-Flow.html>`__ on
  the example designs
- Dive deep into `Shell interface
  specifications <./docs/AWS-Shell-Interface-Specification.html>`__ and
  `PCIe Memory map <./docs/AWS-Fpga-Pcie-Memory-Map.html>`__
- Create your own designs/Port F1 designs to F2 systems
- Try the `Virtual JTAG XVC debug flow <./docs/Virtual-JTAG-XVC.html>`__
  and understand the `shell timeout
  behavior <./docs/How-To-Detect-Shell-Timeout.html>`__
- (Optional) After creating your accelerator design, `create your own
  runtime AMI <../developer-resources/runtime-ami-builder/README.html>`__

Additional HDK Documentation
----------------------------

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  docs/AWS-Shell-Interface-Specification
  docs/AWS-Shell-ERRATA
  docs/shell-floorplan
  docs/How-To-Detect-Shell-Timeout

  docs/AWS-CLK-GEN-spec
  docs/Clock-Recipes-User-Guide
  docs/AWS-CLI-FPGA-Commands

  docs/AWS-Fpga-Pcie-Memory-Map
  docs/Supported-DDR-Modes

  docs/RTL-Simulation-Guide-for-HDK-Design-Flow

  docs/Amazon-FPGA-Images-Afis-Guide
  docs/List-AFI-on-Marketplace
  docs/AFI-Manifest

  docs/on-premise-licensing-help

  docs/XDMA-Install
  docs/Virtual-JTAG-XVC

  docs/IPI-GUI-Vivado-Setup
  docs/IPI-GUI-AWS-IP
  docs/IPI-GUI-Examples
  docs/IPI-GUI-Flows

`Back to Home <../index.html>`__
